---
output:
  pdf_document: default
  word_document: default
  html_document: default
---

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust (MLW) <a href='https://dplyr.tidyverse.org'><img src='man/figures/logo.png' align="right" height="139" /></a>

## Public Health Research Group

## Group Manual

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

[MLW](https://www.mlw.mw) conducts internationally excellent research to
benefit health and trains the next generation of researchers. MLW is
based in Blantyre, Malawi, where nearly one-in-five adults are
HIV-positive, and an estimated 1% of adults have active pulmonary
tuberculosis.

If you are reading this Group Handbook, you have probably recently
joined the Public Health Research Group at MLW.

**Welcome and Zikomo Kwabiri\!**

We are really glad to have you here, and will do what we can to make
sure that your time with the group is rewarding. We hope that you will
learn a lot about public health and epidemiology, develop new skills
(coding, data analysis, writing, giving talks), make new friends and
collaborations, and have lots of fun along the way.

When you join the group, you are expected to read this manual and sign a
form indicating that you have done so.

This Group Handbook is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution -
NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

<br>

## 1\. Essential background

Despite a well-functioning public healthcare system, Malawi has a
substantial burden of infectious and non-communicable diseases that
contribute to excess mortality, disability and poor quality of life.
Conditions within urban Blantyre are highly conducive to the
transmission of infectious diseases, and to outbreaks of emerging
infections.

The Public Health Group uses the principles of public health practice
(epidemiology, statistics, microbiology, mathematical modelling,
qualitative research, health economics, communication) to identify and
respond to important infections and non-communicable diseases, and to
develop and evaluate novel approaches to interrupt transmission, reduce
the time to diagnosis and improve the control of public health priority
infections.

<br>

## 2\. Mission statement

**Key research questions (to be answered in the next 5-10 years)**

1)  *Reducing mortality* In health facilities, how can screening for
    undiagnosed TB and HIV be used to maximize health benefits and
    sustainability, while minimizing harms and costs?
2)  *Improving case detection* In communities, can public health
    interventions be more effectively targeted through better
    understanding of urban transmission networks and heterogeneity in
    risk factors and access to care?
3)  *Optimising treatment and retention in care* For people receiving
    care, which novel or repurposed regimens and supportive
    interventions can improve retention in care, adherence and treatment
    outcomes?

**Current specific objectives**

1.  *Reducing mortality*

<!-- end list -->

  - To design and rigorously evaluate the effectiveness and
    cost-effectiveness of existing and novel TB/HIV diagnostic
    interventions in healthcare settings to increase the yield of
    diagnosis, reduce the time to treatment, and reduce mortality

<!-- end list -->

2.  *Improving case detection*

<!-- end list -->

  - To use the principles of epidemiology and surveillance to identify
    geographical areas and populations with high prevalence of
    undiagnosed disease and transmission and poor access to care to
    better direct targeted interventions
  - To use innovative epidemiological, statistical and randomised trial
    methods, - including pragmatic and Bayesian trial methods – to
    improve disease control, mitigate risk factors, and provide
    high-quality evidence that is relevant to national, regional and
    global policymakers

<!-- end list -->

3.  *Optimising treatment and retention in care*

<!-- end list -->

  - To develop capacity to better understand the drivers of suboptimal
    adherence and retention in care, and to develop and evaluate novel
    interventions to improve treatment outcomes and reduce the adverse
    health consequences.

<br>

## 3\. Roles and expectations

**Everyone**

Science is hard. But it’s also fun. In the Public Health Group, we want
to make sure that everyone experiences a positive, engaging,
hostility-free, challenging, and rewarding environment. To maintain that
environment, we all have to do a few things.

  - Work on what you’re passionate about, work hard at it, and be proud
    of it. Be so proud of it that you have to suppress bragging (but
    it’s ok to brag sometimes).
  - Scientists have to be careful. Don’t rush your work. Think about it.
    Implement it. Double and triple check it. Incorporate sanity checks.
    Ask others to look at your code or data if you need help or
    something looks off. It’s ok to makes mistakes, but mistakes
    shouldn’t be because of carelessness or rushed work.
  - If you do make a mistake, you should definitely tell your
    collaborators (if they have already seen the results, and especially
    if the paper is being written up, is already submitted, or already
    accepted). We admit our mistakes, and then we correct them and move
    on.
  - We all want to get papers published and do great things. But we do
    this honestly. It is never ok to plagiarise, tamper with data, make
    up data, omit data, or fudge results in any way. Science is about
    finding out the truth, and null results and unexpected results are
    still important. This can’t be emphasized enough: no academic
    misconduct\!
  - Support your fellow researchers. Help them out if they need help
    (even if you aren’t on the project), and let them vent when they
    need to. Science is collaborative, not competitive. Help others, and
    you can expect others to help you when you need it.
  - Respect your fellow researchers. Respect their strengths and
    weaknesses, respect their desire for quiet if they need it, and for
    support and a kind ear when they need that. Respect their culture,
    their religion, their beliefs, and their lifestyles.
  - If you’re struggling, tell someone (feel free to tell Peter\!). Your
    health and happiness come first. The Group looks out for the
    well-being of all its members. We are here to help. It’s ok to go
    through hard patches (we all do), but you shouldn’t feel shy about
    asking for help.
  - If there is any tension or hostility in the Group, something has to
    be done about it immediately. We can’t thrive in an environment we
    aren’t comfortable in, and disrespect or rudeness will not be
    tolerated. If you don’t feel comfortable confronting the person in
    question, tell Peter. In any case, tell Peter.
  - If you have a problem with Peter and are comfortable telling him
    about it, do\! If you aren’t comfortable, then tell a senior member
    of MLW academic staff (e.g. MLW Deputy Director or Director).
  - Stay up to date on the latest research, by using PubMed alerts and
    getting emails of journal table of contents. Also consider following
    scientists in the field on Twitter
  - Have a life outside of the Group, take care of your mental and
    physical health, and don’t ever feel bad for taking time off work.

There are a few day-to-day things to keep in mind to keep the Group
running smoothly.

  - If you’re sick, stay home and take care of yourself. Because you
    need it, and also because others don’t need to get sick. If you’re
    sick, reschedule your meetings and study activities for the day (or
    the next couple of days) as soon as you can.
  - You aren’t expected to come into work on weekends and holidays, and
    you aren’t expected to stay late at night. You are expected to get
    your work done (whatever time of day you like to do it).
  - Show up to your meetings, show up to run your studies, show up to
    your classes, and show up to Group and MLW meetings.
  - Dress code is smart-casual (and you can dress up if you want\!), but
    not too casual. When interacting with participants and policymakers,
    or presenting your work, consider dressing up.
  - Be on time: respect that others have busy days and everyone’s time
    is valuable.

**Group Head**

All of the above, and I promise to also…

  - Support you (scientifically, emotionally, career)
  - Give you feedback on a timely basis, including feedback on project
    ideas, conference posters, talks, manuscripts, figures, grants
  - Be available in person and via e-mail on a regular basis, including
    regular meetings to discuss your research (and anything else you’d
    like to discuss)
  - Give my perspective on where the Group is going, where the field is
    going, and tips about surviving and thriving in academia
  - Support your career development by introducing you to other
    researchers in the field, promoting your work at talks, writing
    recommendation letters for you, and letting you attend conferences
    as often as finances permit
  - Help you prepare for the next step of your career, whether it’s a
    post-doc, a faculty job, or a job outside of academia
  - Care for your emotional and physical well-being, and prioritise that
    above all else

**Post-docs**

All of the above, and you will also be expected to…

  - Develop your own independent programme of research
  - Help train and mentor students in the Group (both undergraduate and
    postgraduate) when they need it – either because they ask, or
    because I ask you to
  - Present your work at MLW events, at other Groups/institutes (if
    invited), and at conferences
  - Apply for grants
  - Apply for jobs/promotion (within MLW, at other academic institutes
    or outside of academia) when you’re ready. If you think you’d like
    to leave academia, that’s completely ok – but you should still treat
    your post-doc seriously, and talk to me about how to best train for
    a job outside academia
  - Challenge me (Peter) when I’m wrong or when your opinion is
    different, and treat the rest of the Group to your unique expertise

**PhD Students and Masters Students**

All of the above, and you will also be expected to…

  - Develop your dissertation research. Your dissertation should have at
    least 3 substantial objectives that answer a big-picture research
    question that you have. Much of your work will be done
    independently, but remember that others in Group (especially
    Peter\!) are there to help you when you need it
  - Help mentor interns and volunteers in the Group when they need it –
    either because they ask, or because I ask you to. Interns can also
    help you collect data, but should be discussed with Peter first.
  - Present your work at Group Meetings, MLW events, at other institutes
    (if invited), and at conferences
  - Apply for grants with the support of senior PIs. It’s a valuable
    experience, and best to get it early.
  - Think about what you want for your career (academia – research or
    teaching, industry, science writing, something else), and talk to
    Peter about it to make sure you’re getting the training you need for
    that career
  - Make sure you meet all instutional deadlines (e.g., for your exams,
    PGR requirements, upgrading, and thesis) – and make sure Peter/your
    other supervisors are aware of them\!
  - Prioritise time for research. Coursework and teaching are important,
    but ultimately your research gets you your degree and prepares you
    for the next stage of your career.

**Interns and volunteers**

All of the above, and you will also be expected to…

  - Develop your weekly schedule by talking to your supervisor. You
    should be coming in every day (apart from holidays and weekends),
    and scheduling enough time to get your work done
  - Assist other Group members with data collection and analysis if
    agreed with your supervisors
  - Complete and write-up your research project - students who produce
    high-quality papers and presentations will be more likely to be
    successful in future fellowship applications
  - Start planning for fellowhip/funding applications early. If you want
    to progress to do a Masters or PhD, identify sources of funding, and
    meet the deadlines for application. Please discuss all planned
    applications very early with your supervisors +/- Peter - at least 6
    months is usually required to prepare a good Masters Fellowship
    application, and perhaps longer for a PhD application.

**Code of Conduct**

The Public Health Group, and MLW, is an environment that must be free of
harassment and discrimination. All Group members are expected to abide
by the CMLW on discrimination and harassment, which you can (and must)
read about here (Peter to add link).

The Public Health Group is committed to ensuring a safe, friendly, and
accepting environment for everybody. We will not tolerate any verbal or
physical harassment or discrimination on the basis of gender, gender
identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body size, race, or religion. We will not tolerate
intimidation, stalking, following, unwanted photography or video
recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate
physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention. Finally, it should go
without saying that lewd language and behavior have no place in the
Group.

If you notice someone being harassed, or are harassed yourself, tell
Peter immediately. If Peter is the cause of your concern, then reach out
to a senior member of MLW Staff (e.g. MLW Deputy Director or Director).

**Scientific Integrity**

The Public Health Group, and MLW, is committed to ensuring research
integrity, and we take a hard line on research misconduct. We will not
tolerate fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism.

A big problem is why people feel the need to engage in misconduct in the
first place, and that’s a discussion that we can have. If you are
feeling pressured to succeed (publish a lot, publish in high impact
journals), you should reach out to Peter and we can talk about it – but
this pressure is something we all face and is never an excuse to
fabricate, falsify, or plagiarise. Also, think about the goal of science
and why you are here: you’re here to arrive at the truth, and to improve
the health of the people of Malawi. Not only is research misconduct
doing you a disservice, it’s also a disservice to the people of Malawi.
And it risks your entire career. It is never right and never worth it.
Don’t do it.

<br>

## 4\. Open Science and data analysis

We believe that science should be open, reproducible, and freely
available so that it can have the greatest possible impact.

**Reproducible science** If you gave someone else your raw data, they
should be able to reproduce your results exactly. This is critical,
because if they can’t reproduce your results, it suggests that one (or
both) of you has made errors in the analysis, and the results can’t be
trusted. Reproducible research is an essential part of science, and an
expectation for all projects in the Group.

Reproducibile research requires that each step of the research process
is documented and organised and stored. To facilitate reproducible
research, we do the following:

  - Use standardised naming, filing and version control for all
    documents and files produced by your project. We follow
    [this](https://speakerdeck.com/jennybc/how-to-name-files) approach
    to file naming and version control
  - Write a project concept note using
    [this](https://www.dropbox.com/s/hcoohy2nwo7dwrr/2018-12-06_concept-note-template.docx?dl=0)
    template, and submit for review by the Group Head - projects will be
    logged in the [Group Project Google
    Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TT5wktGTrLTnBy6aeuyXiiyDGT2dHWZsjV-0I-R3Bio/edit#gid=0)
  - Write a study protocol, and publish (if possible) before the project
    begins
  - Write an analysis plan, detailing the analytic approaches that will
    be taken, pre-specifying all analysis as far as possible
  - Register the study, e.g. with
    [clinicaltrials.gov](clinicaltrials.gov)
  - Use MLW-approved data collection systems, with auditable storage and
    cleaning of raw data
  - For statistical analysis, we use R. Interfacing to R through
    [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com) will make your life considerable
    easier\! For an introduction to R, we recommend the [R for Data
    Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz) textbook.
  - Manage all of your data (raw, cleaned for sharing), and analysis and
    output files (markdown, tables, figures, manuscripts) within an R
    package. This will make sharing and collaboration easier.
    Instructions for making an R package are
    [here](https://kbroman.org/pkg_primer/). The `usethis`
    [package](https://usethis.r-lib.org) automates much of this process.
  - Get a [GitHub](https://github.com) username, and apply for a free
    educational license to allow you to create private repositories (to
    allow version control while you are doing analysis - once analysis
    is complete, you can convert to a public repository for sharing with
    the world\!). Using GitHub facilitates collaborative analysis with
    your research team and statistician. Instructions for setting
    working with GitHub and RStudio can be found
    [here](https://happygitwithr.com)
  - Distribute the protocol, analysis plan, and statistical analysis
    package with all papers that you publish, unless there are
    compelling public safety or privacy reasons not to do so. Be careful
    not to share personally-identifying information in the package.
  - Things are changing quickly. If you find a new approach to doing
    reproducible research that you think will work, share it with the
    group.

**Freely available science** MLW receives subtantial core funding for
research from Wellcome. Additionally, many group members and projects
will receive funding from charities, governments and research
institutes. For science to progress, it is essential all all of our
research is available freely, and as soon as possible. We follow
[Wellcomes Open Access
Policy](https://wellcome.ac.uk/news/wellcome-updates-open-access-policy-align-coalition-s)
in our approach to publication:

  - All research articles must be made freely available through [PubMed
    Central](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/) and [Europe
    PMC](https://europepmc.org) at the time of publication.
  - All articles must be published under a [Creative Commons attribution
    licence (CC-BY)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/)
  - Authors or their institutions must retain copyright for their
    research articles and hold the rights necessary to make a version of
    the article immediately available under a compliant open licence.
  - We will no longer support publishing in subscription journals
    (‘hybrid OA’), outside of a transformative arrangement.
  - Where there is a significant public health benefit to preprints
    being shared widely and rapidly, such as a disease outbreak, these
    preprints must be published:
  - before peer review
  - on an approved platform that supports immediate publication of the
    complete manuscript
  - under a CC-BY licence.

<br>

## 5\. Publications

**Authorship**

We follow [ICMJE
guidelines](http://www.icmje.org/recommendations/browse/roles-and-responsibilities/defining-the-role-of-authors-and-contributors.html)
for authorship.

Authorship is based on four criteria:

  - Substantial contributions to the conception or design of the work;
    or the acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data for the
    work; AND
  - Drafting the work or revising it critically for important
    intellectual content; AND
  - Final approval of the version to be published; AND
  - Agreement to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring
    that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of
    the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.

Authorship should usually be defined at the start of a project, before
any data collection or analysis has taken place, and recorded on the
Project Concept Note form. At the start of a new project, the student or
post-doc taking on the lead role (i.e. the person who is leading the
analysis and writing) can expect to be first author (talk to Peter about
it if you aren’t sure). Peter will typically be the last author, unless
the project is primarily under the guidance of another PI and Peter is
involved as a secondary PI – then Peter will be second to last and the
main PI will be last. Students and post-docs who help over the course of
the project may be added to the author list depending on their
contribution, and their placement will be discussed with all parties
involved in the paper. If a student or post-doc takes on a project but
subsequently hands it off to another student or post-doc, they will most
likely lose first-authorship to that student or post-doc, unless
co-first-authorship is appropriate. All of these issues will be
discussed openly, and you should feel free to bring them up if you are
not sure of your authorship status or want to challenge it.

**Publication of mansucripts** We aim to submit manuscripts as soon as
possible to share results and facilitate open science. Before submission
of a manuscript, the project lead should ensure that:

  - All authors meet authorship criteria, and have read/edited the
    manuscript and approved the decision to submit.
  - All authors’ names and affliations are correct
  - An [ORCID ID](https://orcid.org) is provided for each author (where
    it is possible to do so)
  - The manuscript will be published under a Creative Commons
    attribution licence (CC-BY)
  - All funding sources are acknowledged appropriately

Increasingly, manuscripts will be published as pre-prints, and we
encourage this. Pre-print servers include:

  - [biorXiv](https://www.biorxiv.org)
  - [medrXiv](https://submit.medrxiv.org)

Before selecting a journal to submit the manuscipt to, make sure that:

  - The project senior author is aware and happy of the selection of
    journal
  - The journal is reputable, and not
    [predatory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predatory_publishing)
  - If you are struggling to find a suitable journal, talk to the senior
    author, or try [JANE](http://jane.biosemantics.org)

**Orphened projects** If a student or post-doc collects a dataset but
does not completely analyse it or write it up within two years after the
end of data collection, Peter will re-assign the project (if
appropriate) to another person to expedite publication. If a student or
post-doc voluntarily relinquishes their rights to the project prior to
the two-year window, Peter will also re-assign the project to another
individual. This policy is here to prevent data (especially expensive
data, and data of public health importance) from remaining unpublished,
but is meant to give priority to the person who collected the data
initially.

<br>

## 6\. Communications and engagement

**Communications with Group Head** In addition to Group Meetings
meetings (see below), you can find Peter at his desk. He is almost
always available; feel free to ask for a chat. He will always say yes,
though sometimes se can only spare a couple of minutes or might ask you
to let him finish typing a sentence. If Peter is not at his desk, assume
that he is either gone, in a meeting, or does not want to be disturbed –
so please send a message (WhatsApp or e-mail) rather than waiting
around.

**Email and other communication etiquitte**

We expect you to work hard and enjoy science whilst at work, but to be
able to relax and enjoy your time away from work. Work communications
out of hours can be intrusive and stressful - think twice before
pressing send: nearly always, it can wait until tomorrow. Although some
people work at the evenings or weekends, not everyone wants to, or is
able to - please respect your colleagues home life by limiting work
communications to work hours. If you receive a work communication
outside of work, do not feel as though you have to respond until you are
back at work.

*Email*

  - Work emails should be sent using a work email address (e.g. with
    suffix .ac.uk, or .mlw.mw) - try to avoid mixing personal/home
    emails accounts and work email accounts.
  - If you send an email outside of work hours, ***do not*** expect a
    response until the next working day (at the very earliest) -
    receiving work emails can serious impact work-life balance. There is
    virtually nothing so important that it cannot wait until the next
    day for a response.
  - Please be polite and respectful when sending emails - you are
    writing to your professional colleagues
  - ***Do not*** send “reply-all” emails, unless everyone in the email
    group needs to read your response.
  - Be mindful when forwarding emails - did the orginal sender want to
    have their email sent to someone else?
  - Make sure email addressed are spelled correctly, and beware of
    autocompleting addresses - check the “TO” list twice before pressing
    “Send”
  - ***Do not*** send any personally-identifying information about study
    participants by email

*WhatsApp*

  - WhatsApp can be useful for communicating quickly with colleagues,
    often with questions that don’t need an email.
  - Set-up a work WhatsApp group for your project.
  - Try not to send WhatsApp messages about work outside of work hours.
    This can be intrusive, and impact upon work-life balance.
  - Don’t send personal/non-work messages to your work WhatsApp groups.

*Calendars*

We have a Google calendar for Group Meetings. Please ask Thandie to add
you to it.

If you receive a calendar invite, please respond to it, either by
accepting or declining. This lets the organiser know who is able to
attend.

*Twitter*

[Twitter](https://twitter.com) can be an excellent medium for engaging
with fellow scientists and the
public.

[Here](https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2018/08/scientists-do-you-want-succeed-twitter-here-s-how-many-followers-you-need)
is some advice about using Twitter in science.

We encourage you to:

  - Open a Twitter account
  - Follow your colleagues and fellow scientists in the field
  - Tweet about new papers published, interesting manuscripts you have
    read, new grants, other achievements
  - Retweet tweets from your colleagues, using hash-tags and mentions
  - Consider reading a scientific paper a day, and Tweeting about it
    using the `#paperaday` hastag.

Be careful not to publish personally-identifying information about study
participants (e.g. photos, names etc without consent). Speak to Peter or
MLW SciComm Depart if you want further help on using Twitter.

<br>

## 7\. Resources

(This is a working document, so please add resources that you find to be
helpful here).

In general, ask Peter to borrow hard copies if needed.

**Statistics and Epidemiology**

  - [Statistical Rethinking: A Bayesian Course with examples in R and
    Stan - Richard
    McIlreath](https://xcelab.net/rm/statistical-rethinking/)
  - [Modern Epidemiology - Kenneth J. Rothman, Sander Greenland, Timothy
    L.
    Lash](https://books.google.mw/books/about/Modern_Epidemiology.html?id=Z3vjT9ALxHUC&redir_esc=y)
  - [Regression Modelling Strategies - Frank E Harrell
    Jr](http://hbiostat.org/doc/rms.pdf)
  - [The Art of Statistics - David J
    Speigelhalter](https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/294/294857/the-art-of-statistics/9780241398630.html)
  - [Bayesian Approaches to Clinical Trials and Health‐Care Evaluation -
    David J. Spiegelhalter Keith R. Abrams Jonathan P.
    Myles](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/0470092602)
  - [Basic Epidemiology - R Bonita, R Beaglehole, T
    Kjellstrom](https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/43541/9241547073_eng.pdf;jsessionid=E0C41C989334E264D2066D449EC27799?sequence=1)

**Scientific (and general) writing**

  - [The Sense of Style. The Thinking Person’s Guide to Writing in
    the 21st Century - Steven
    Pinker](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/310859/the-sense-of-style-by-steven-pinker/9780143127796/)
  - [Clear and Simple as the Truth - Francis-Noël Thomas & Mark
    Turner](https://press.princeton.edu/titles/5543.html)

**Tuberculosis and HIV**

  - [Epidemiological basis of tuberculosis control - Hans L.
    Rieder](https://www.theunion.org/what-we-do/publications/english/pub_epidemiologic_basis_eng.pdf)

<br>

## 8\. Meetings, journal clubs and seminars

**Group Meetings**

Public Health Group meetings are held ***every Thursday between 9am and
10.30am.*** All group members are expected to attend and participate.
Meetings rotate weekly between:

  - Scientific, comprising of a research update presentation, and a
    journal club presentation.
  - Project Technical, comprising of a review of the progress of all
    group projects.

Projects with a laboratory component (or any other Group Members who are
interested) should attend the TB Lab Meeting, held at the College of
Medicine on every second Wednesday morning. Ask Thandie or Doris for the
schedule.

Peter, or his nominated deputy, will attend the monthly MLW Research
Strategy Committee. If you have a project LOI that is being reviewed,
please ensure that they are briefed in advance of the meeting.

Please review the schedule regularly, and ensure that you are prepared
to present when it is your turn. If you need help with a presentation or
journal club, ask Peter.

**Other meetings/seminars**

  - All group members should attend the MLW Project Progress Report
    Presentations (PPR), held in Nyika Room at 15.30-16.00pm on Monday
    each week. All Masters, PhD and Post-Doc students should participate
    in the presentation schedule.
  - Additionally, when senior investigators visit MLW, they will often
    give a “Cutting Edge” presentation. All group members should attend.
  - Feel free to attend other MLW Group’s Journal Clubs, but beware of
    committing to participating in another rotation of
    presentations/journal clubs, as time demands can become
    unmanageable.

<br>

## 9\. Conferences

Presenting your research at conference is a great way to share your
results with the scientific community and the public, and to make new
links with fellow scientists in the field.

Similar for publications, you should follow authorship guidelines for
conference submissions

  - Generally, it is good to present new results that haven’t yet been
    published at conferences. This means you need to plan submission
    carefully to fit timelines for publication.
  - Make sure supervisors and authors are aware of the proposed
    submission, and have read and approved the abstract
  - Consider who is going to pay for the costs of the conference (there
    is generally no “pot” of money available, and you shouldn’t pay for
    these yourself) \_ Travel, including airplane flights if required \_
    Visas \_ Hotels/accomodation \_ Travel/health insurance \_
    Conference registeration \_ Local expenses (travel, food, etc)

Remember that when you are at a conference, you are respresenting the
Public Health Group and MLW - follow the Group Code of Conduct.

**Essential Conferences**

You should always submit abstracts to:

  - The MLW Annual Scientific Meeting
  - The College of Medicine Research Dissemination Conference
  - Conferences required by your institute (e.g. LSTM PGR Student
    Conference)
  - The MLW/NTP TB Researchers meeting (if relevant to your research)

**Other Conferences**

If you have new results to report, consider submitting abstracts to:

  - [The Union World Conference on Lung
    Health](https://hyderabad.worldlunghealth.org), including TB Science
    Conference (Focus on TB and Lung Health, held annually)
  - [CROI](http://www.croiconference.org): Conference on Retroviruses
    and Opportunistic Infectiouns (Focus on HIV and opportunistic
    infections, including TB, held annually in North America)
  - [IAS/AIDS](https://www.iasociety.org/Conferences) (Focus on HIV,
    held annually)

There are other important conferences that you might consider submitting
an abstract to. Discuss with Peter/your supervisors before submitting.
[This
list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g5D02BlzENdMC5nDkO1i2N3gzCMndePlKO3rYq8QX6w/edit#gid=1081499464)
is a helpful resource of conferences.

**Presenting at conferences**

If you are presenting a **poster**:

  - Use the Public Health Group Poster template (add a link here for
    this).
  - Prepare a 1-2 minute summary of your poster. You should be able to
    give this fluently to people who ask you about your research
    (practice with your supervisors/Peter if necessary)
  - Think about how you are going to get your poster printed, and take
    it to the conference (fabric printing is very convenient)
  - Don’t put your poster up, then ignore it. Standing by your poster at
    the poster sessions is a great way to meet scientists interested in
    your research.

If you are giving an **oral presentation**

  - Use the Public Health Group PowerPoint template (add link here for
    this)
  - Write out your talk, and practicing it lots (practice with your
    supervisors/Peter, as well as with your colleagues in the Group: is
    usually best to arrange formal practice sessions)
  - Usually, it is a good idea to stick to one slide per minute
    available, and one message per slide. Most people try to put far too
    much on slides, and they end up becoming unreadable.
  - Use high-resource images and figures (not less than 300 dots per
    inch)
  - Make sure that you load your slides at the conference venue (usually
    at the media centre), and check that the formating is all correct
    (issues often with fonts and image resolution/corruption)

Here are some examples of good slide
    design:

  - <http://www.mjskay.com/presentations/openvisconf2018-bayes-uncertainty-2.pdf>
  - (Add more here as a resource)
